Robot Turtles C++ Solution (#1416)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/Kattis Robot Turtles.mdx

---
id: kattis-robotturtles
source: Kattis
title: Robot Turtles
author: Maggie Liu
---

## Explanation

We can use Dijkstra's, keeping track of the current length of the program
($\texttt{dist}$), the direction the turtle faces ($\texttt{dir}$) and the moves
it has already made at each location ($\texttt{moves}$). If there is an ice
castle in front of the turtle, it should only be melted if the turtle will move
there immediately. If the turtle doesn't move onto the square immediately, then
it will either:

- return to the square later, in which case the turtle has wasted moves before

>   returning

Reviewer: add period

---
id: kattis-robotturtles
source: Kattis
title: Robot Turtles
author: Maggie Liu
---

## Explanation

We can use Dijkstra's, keeping track of the current length of the program
($\texttt{dist}$), the direction the turtle faces ($\texttt{dir}$) and the moves
it has already made at each location ($\texttt{moves}$). If there is an ice
castle in front of the turtle, it should only be melted if the turtle will move
there immediately. If the turtle doesn't move onto the square immediately, then
it will either:

- return to the square later, in which case the turtle has wasted moves before
  returning.
- never move onto the square, in which case the turtle wasted a move melting the
  ice castle. 
So, we can only melt ice castles if the turtle moves forward immediately after.

There are 3 moves that a turtle can make at each location. It can move forward
if there is an empty square, or melt an ice castle and then move forward if
there is an ice castle. Or, the turtle can turn left or turn right. As we make
moves, we add the instructions to the string $\texttt{moves}$.

Once we reach the diamond, we can print out the $\texttt{moves}$.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2\log N^2)$, where $N$ is the side length of the grid.

Author: is this right? or would it be N^2 \log N since the 2 is a constant factor?

Reviewer: i think this is right

---
id: kattis-robotturtles
source: Kattis
title: Robot Turtles
author: Maggie Liu
---

Official Analysis: [Solution Outline](https://icpc.cs.vt.edu/hs/2016/outlines-vths-2016.pdf#page=20), [Code](https://icpc.cs.vt.edu/hs/2016/judge/robotturtles/submissions/accepted/)

## Explanation

We can use Dijkstra's, keeping track of the current length of the program
($\texttt{dist}$), the direction the turtle faces ($\texttt{dir}$) and the moves

> it has already made at each location ($\texttt{moves}$). If there is an ice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it has already made to reach its current location ($\texttt{moves}$). If there is an ice
```

(I assume this is what you mean?)

castle in front of the turtle, it should only be melted if the turtle will move
there immediately. If the turtle doesn't move onto the square immediately, then
it will either:

- return to the square later, in which case the turtle has wasted moves before
  returning.
- never move onto the square, in which case the turtle wasted a move melting the
  ice castle. 

> So, we can only melt ice castles if the turtle moves forward immediately after.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, we only need to melt ice castles if the turtle moves forward immediately after.
```

> There are 3 moves that a turtle can make at each location. It can move forward

Reviewer 2: Make this a list because putting it in two sentences is a bit awkward to read

if there is an empty square, or melt an ice castle and then move forward if

> there is an ice castle. Or, the turtle can turn left or turn right. As we make

Reviewer 2: > the turtle can turn left or turn right

Just "the turtle can turn" is sufficient

moves, we add the instructions to the string $\texttt{moves}$.

Once we reach the diamond, we can print out the $\texttt{moves}$.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2\log N^2)$, where $N$ is the side length of the board.

Reviewer 2: Rather move this to the explanation (but it doesn't really matter)
